---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

["Campaign Agendas and Issue Group Strategy in Congressional Primaries"](/files/Meisels_CampaignIssueGroups.pdf) *Job Market Paper*

> *Which candidates do issue PACs support in House primaries? Competing theories suggest a focus on either friendly incumbents or new potential allies, yet evaluating divergent predictions requires data on candidates’ agendas. I leverage original issue platform text from campaign websites, FEC receipts, and bill summaries to measure campaign attention, PAC funding, and legislative activity across nine major issue areas from 2016 to 2022. Within–candidate analyses show that candidates enjoy greater support from groups centered around their campaign priorities, with larger absolute effects for incumbents and larger relative effects for non–incumbents. Further investigation via first–differences reveals an incumbency boost in issue group funding disproportionately concentrated among those who campaigned on the issue. Differences are not driven by legislative activity: issue PACs are more responsive to campaign attention than to bill introductions. Results suggest that groups rely on campaign rhetoric to identify and cultivate long–term relationships with potential champions of their cause over rewarding incumbents for past lawmaking activities.*

["Giving to the Extreme? Experimental Evidence on Donor Response to Candidate and District Characteristics"](/files/GTTE_12.6.22.pdf) *With Joshua Clinton and Gregory Huber.* Invited to revise and resubmit at *British Journal of Political Science.*

> *How does candidate ideology affect donors’ contribution decisions in U.S. House elections? Studies of donormotivations have struggled with the confounding of candidate, donor, and district characteristics in observational data and the difficulty of assessing trade-offs in surveys. We investigate how these factors affect contribution decisions using experimental vignettes administered to 7,000 verified midterm donors. While ideological congruence influences donors’ likelihood of contributing to a candidate, district competitiveness and opponent extremity are equally important. Moreover, the response to ideology is asymmetric and heterogeneous: donors penalize more moderate candidates five times more heavily than more extreme candidates, with the most extreme donors exhibiting the greatest preference for candidates even more extreme than themselves. Republicans also exhibit a greater relative preference for extremism than Democrats, although partisan differences are smaller than differences by donor extremism. Our findings suggest that strategic considerations matter and donors incentivize candidate extremism even more than previously thought.*

["Positioning in Congressional Primary Campaigns"](/files/MM_PCPC.pdf)

> *The concept of campaign positioning is integral to theoretical investigation of elections, representation, and political behavior, yet empirical studies rely upon proxy measures that may not reflect candidates’ public campaign positions. Leveraging original data on issue platforms from the campaign websites of 2016---2022 congressional primary candidates, I introduce a new measure based directly on candidates’ own campaign positions during the increasingly important primary election stage. Primary campaign positions are temporally dynamic, straightforward to validate, and clearly recover a recognizable liberal--conservative dimension. The utility of the measure is demonstrated with an application to an ongoing debate about whether nationalization mitigates candidates' district ties, wherein I find that primary candidates' rhetoric varies systematically with district partisanship. Estimating primary candidates' positions independently of campaign receipts and roll--call voting facilitates future investigation into the substantive relationships between public campaign rhetoric, financial contributions, and subsequent legislative behavior.*

["Everything in Moderation? The Effect of Candidate Extremism on Individual and Corporate PAC Fundraising"](/files/EIM_MM.pdf)

> *Do ideologically extreme candidates enjoy fundraising advantages over more moderate candidates? Extant work documents a relationship between candidates' positions and campaign contributions at the donor level and in subnational contexts, yet scholars have struggled to identify the impact of House candidates' ideology on their fundraising due to the difficulty of disentangling confounded and endogenous factors. To isolate the effect of candidate positioning on fundraising success, I leverage the quasi-random variation provided by just barely nominating an extreme House candidate over a moderate. Using a regression discontinuity design on close primaries between 1990 and 2018, I find no increase in individual contributions nor decrease in corporate PAC contributions among extreme candidates across numerous model specifications, bandwidth selections, and sample compositions. These null results call into question the extent to which candidates' financial support from individual and business PAC donors is simply due to their ideology.*

"Competition and Free-Riding in Electoral Campaigns with Outside Spending." *With Brenton Kenkel.*


